Normative: Merge proposal-canonical-tz Stage 3 into Temporal (#2633)
tc39/proposal-temporal: docs/timezone.md

The object must have at least `getOffsetNanosecondsFor()` and `getPossibleInstantsFor()` methods, and an `id` property.
Any object with those three methods will return the correct output from any Temporal property or method.
However, most other code will assume that custom time zones act like built-in `Temporal.TimeZone` objects.

> To interoperate with libraries or other code that you didn't write, then you should implement all the other `Temporal.TimeZone` members as well: `toString()`, `toJSON()`, `equals`, `getOffsetStringFor()`, `getPlainDateTimeFor()`, `getInstantFor()`, `getNextTransition()`, `getPreviousTransition()`.

Author: Whoops. Fixed now.

This is the normalized version of whatever `timeZoneIdentifier` was passed as a parameter to the constructor.

When subclassing `Temporal.TimeZone`, this property must be overridden to provide an identifier for the custom time zone.

## Methods

### timeZone.**equals**(_other_: Temporal.TimeZone | object | string) : boolean

**Parameters:**

- `other` (`Temporal.TimeZone` object, object implementing the `Temporal.TimeZone` protocol, or a string time zone identifier): Another time zone to compare.

**Returns:** `true` if `timeZone` and `other` are equal, or `false` if not.

Compares two time zones for equality.
Equality is determined by the following algorithm:

- If `timeZone === other`, then the time zones are equal.
- Otherwise, `timeZone.id` is compared to `other` (or `other.id` if `other` is an object).
  If both string identifiers are equal, then the time zones are equal.
  This is a case-sensitive comparison; custom time zone identifiers that vary in case will be considered unequal.
- The time zones are also equal if the identifiers resolve to the same Zone name in the [IANA Time Zone Database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones).

>   This resolution is case-insensitive.

Reviewer: Ugh, did we _really_ end up in a place where A and B are true but C is false?
```js
// equivalent strings
A: Temporal.TimeZone.from("Asia/Kolkata").equals("Asia/Calcutta");
// object with incorrect behavior that claims a tzdb id
B: Temporal.TimeZone.from("Asia/Kolkata").equals({
     id: "Fake Asia/Kolkata".split(" ").at(-1),
     getOffsetNanosecondsFor() { return 86400e9 - 1; },
     getPossibleInstantsFor() {},
   });
// proxy for a built-in time zone for a tzdb alias
C: Temporal.TimeZone.from("Asia/Kolkata").equals(new Proxy(
     Temporal.TimeZone.from("Asia/Calcutta"),
     { get(tz, k) { const v = tz[k]; return typeof v === "function" ? v.bind(tz) : v; } },
   ));
```

Author: Nope, they're all true. If both IDs are valid (case-insensitive) IDs in the IANA TZDB, then if they resolve to the same primary time zone identifier then they're considered equal. 

The case that won't work is when custom, non-IANA time zone IDs don't have the same case. Those are not considered equal. Like this:

```js
// Custom time zone identifiers are compared case-sensitively
class Custom1 extends Temporal.TimeZone {
  constructor() {  super('UTC'); }
  get id() { return 'Moon/Cheese'; }
};
class Custom2 extends Temporal.TimeZone {
  constructor() {  super('UTC'); }
  get id() { return 'Moon/CHEESE'; }
};
new Custom1().equals(new Custom1()); // => true
new Custom1().equals(new Custom2()); // => false
```

I agree that this is not ideal behavior, but when I discovered this the night before our Stage 3 presentations last week, @ptomato convinced me that it wasn't a big enough problem to warrant cracking open the reviewed-and-approved spec text.

Author: I reorganized the docs content to be more clear about this behavior, and I re-ordered the steps so IANA is first (because it's more common and more permissive). Let me know if you think the new docs text is better.

Reviewer: > Nope, they're all true. If both IDs are valid (case-insensitive) IDs in the IANA TZDB, then if they resolve to the same primary time zone identifier then they're considered equal.

Got it. So there's a consistency, albeit of dubious value.

> The case that won't work is when custom, non-IANA time zone IDs don't have the same case. Those are not considered equal. Like this:
> 
> ```js
> // Custom time zone identifiers are compared case-sensitively
> class Custom1 extends Temporal.TimeZone {
>   constructor() {  super('UTC'); }
>   get id() { return 'Moon/Cheese'; }
> };
> class Custom2 extends Temporal.TimeZone {
>   constructor() {  super('UTC'); }
>   get id() { return 'Moon/CHEESE'; }
> };
> new Custom1().equals(new Custom1()); // => true
> new Custom1().equals(new Custom2()); // => false
> ```
> 
> I agree that this is not ideal behavior, but when I discovered this the night before our Stage 3 presentations last week, @ptomato convinced me that it wasn't a big enough problem to warrant cracking open the reviewed-and-approved spec text.

:+1:

> I reorganized the docs content to be more clear about this behavior, and I re-ordered the steps so IANA is first (because it's more common and more permissive). Let me know if you think the new docs text is better.

Much better; thanks.

Author: OK, cool. I also just added tests to cover case-sensitivity for custom objects. Resolving.

- If both identifiers are numeric offset time zone identifiers like `+05:30`, then they are equal if they represent the same offset.
- Otherwise, the time zones are not equal.

Time zones that resolve to different Zones in the IANA Time Zone Database are not equal, even if those Zones use the same offsets.
Similarly, a numeric-offset identifier is never equal to a named time zone in the IANA Time Zone Database, even if they represent the same offsets.

Although there may be slight variation between implementations, ECMAScript implementations generally build the IANA Time Zone Database using build options that guarantee at least one Zone for every <a href="https://www.iso.org/glossary-for-iso-3166.html">ISO 3166-1 Alpha-2</a> country code.
This behavior differs from the default build options of the IANA Time Zone Database where a Zone may span multiple countries that have shared the same offsets since 1970, for example Europe/Oslo, Europe/Stockholm, Europe/Copenhagen, and Europe/Berlin.

> To avoid conflating different countries' time zones which may vary in the future, ECMAScript does not use these default build options.

Reviewer: This seems too strong, I don't think we established it as a normative requirement.

Author: Yeah, I wasn't sure how to talk about the case where there's consistent behavior among implementations that nonetheless isn't in the spec. And especially because this implementation-defined behavior is very unlikely to change. Got a suggestion for how to thread the needle?

The main thing I wanted to avoid was users going to the [wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) (which uses the default TZDB build options) and being confused that IDs shown as Links there aren't considered non-primary in ECMAScript. No implementation treats Europe/Oslo or Atlantic/Reykjavik as non-primary, but Wikipedia does.

Although there's well-known variation between engines about which ID is canonical among a group of IDs (e.g. Asia/Kolkata in FF vs. Asia/Calcutta in Chrome), the groups of IDs themselves are very consistent across implementations. The most populous zone where they disagree is Slovakia vs. Czechia whose IDs are considered equal in FF but different in Chrome. The other differences are really small countries like Europe/Vatican where FF considers a Link to Europe/Rome but (because it's a different country code) CLDR and hence Chrome/Safari do not.

I'm trying to fix this variation in https://github.com/tc39/ecma402/issues/806, and if we can successfully get FF to change to match the same grouping as Chrome/Safari, then I think we can indeed make the text above normative.

So the main question to me is what to say in the meantime.

Author: This was resolved via a suggestion on another thread after a rebase crossed GitHub's wires.

This is the normalized version of whatever `timeZoneIdentifier` was passed as a parameter to the constructor.

When subclassing `Temporal.TimeZone`, this property must be overridden to provide an identifier for the custom time zone.

## Methods

### timeZone.**equals**(_other_: Temporal.TimeZone | object | string) : boolean

**Parameters:**

- `other` (`Temporal.TimeZone` object, object implementing the `Temporal.TimeZone` protocol, or a string time zone identifier): Another time zone to compare.

**Returns:** `true` if `timeZone` and `other` are equal, or `false` if not.

Compares two time zones for equality.
Equality is determined by the following algorithm:

- If `timeZone === other`, then the time zones are equal.
- Otherwise, `timeZone.id` is compared to `other` (or `other.id` if `other` is an object).
  If any of the following conditions are true, then the time zones are equal:
  - If both string identifiers are Zone or Link names in the [IANA Time Zone Database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones), and they resolve to the same Zone name.
    This resolution is case-insensitive.
  - If both string identifiers are custom time zone identifiers and both identifiers are equal.

>     This is a case-sensitive comparison.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This comparison is equivalent to `===`, and therefore sensitive to both case and character normalization.
```

Author: Happy to adjust this text, but I think your suggestion is a bit too technical for the layperson who may not know what "character normalization" is, and who may not recognize "sensitive to case" instead of the more familiar "case-sensitive".  What about this?

>  - If both string identifiers are custom time zone identifiers that are equal according to `===`.
    This comparison is case-sensitive and does not normalize Unicode characters.

Author: Or this, even simpler language: 

>   - Both string identifiers are custom time zone identifiers that are equal according to `===`.
    This comparison is case-sensitive and treats every Unicode character as different.

Author: Hopefully this is OK because I included this text in the latest push. :-)

Reviewer: "_comparison is case-sensitive and does not normalize Unicode characters_" is reasonably good, but "_comparison is case-sensitive and treats every Unicode character as different_" is not IMO. Relevant examples are things like \<U+00E9
LATIN SMALL LETTER E WITH ACUTE> vs. \<U+0065 LATIN SMALL LETTER E, U+0301 COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT> (`"é" !== "é"`) where decomposition matters, or \<U+0061 LATIN SMALL LETTER A, U+0301 COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT, U+0323 COMBINING DOT BELOW> vs. \<U+0061 LATIN SMALL LETTER A, U+0323 COMBINING DOT BELOW, U+0301 COMBINING ACUTE ACCENT> (`"ạ́" !== "ạ́"`) where the ordering of combining characters matters.

Author: > "_comparison is case-sensitive and does not normalize Unicode characters_" is reasonably good

OK, I'll use that.

>   - If both identifiers are numeric offset time zone identifiers like `"+05:30"`, and they represent the same offset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If both identifiers are numeric offset time zone identifiers like "+05:30", and they represent the same offset.
```

- Otherwise, the time zones are not equal.

Time zones that resolve to different Zones in the IANA Time Zone Database are not equal, even if those Zones use the same offsets.
Similarly, a numeric-offset identifier is never equal to a named time zone in the IANA Time Zone Database, even if they represent the same offsets.

Although there may be slight variation between implementations, ECMAScript implementations generally build the IANA Time Zone Database using build options that guarantee at least one Zone for every <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2">ISO 3166-1 Alpha-2</a> country code.

> This behavior differs from the default build options of the IANA Time Zone Database where a Zone may span multiple countries that have shared the same offsets since 1970, for example Europe/Oslo, Europe/Stockholm, Europe/Copenhagen, and Europe/Berlin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior differs from the default build options of the IANA Time Zone Database where a Zone may span multiple countries that have shared the same UTC offsets and transitions since 1970, for example Europe/Oslo, Europe/Stockholm, Europe/Copenhagen, and Europe/Berlin.
```

> To avoid conflating different countries' time zones that may vary in the future, ECMAScript does not use these default build options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid conflating different countries' time zones that may vary in the future, ECMAScript does not recommend these default build options.
```

### timeZone.**id** : string

The `id` property gives an unambiguous identifier for the time zone.
This is the normalized version of whatever `timeZoneIdentifier` was passed as a parameter to the constructor.

When subclassing `Temporal.TimeZone`, this property must be overridden to provide an identifier for the custom time zone.

## Methods

### timeZone.**equals**(_other_: Temporal.TimeZone | object | string) : boolean

**Parameters:**

- `other` (`Temporal.TimeZone` object, object implementing the `Temporal.TimeZone` protocol, or a string time zone identifier): Another time zone to compare.

**Returns:** `true` if `timeZone` and `other` are equal, or `false` if not.

> Compares two time zones for equality.
> Equality is determined by the following algorithm:
> 
> - If `timeZone === other`, then the time zones are equal.
> - Otherwise, `timeZone.id` is compared to `other` (or `other.id` if `other` is an object).
>   If any of the following conditions are true, then the time zones are equal:
>   - Both string identifiers are Zone or Link names in the [IANA Time Zone Database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones), and they resolve to the same Zone name.
>     This resolution is case-insensitive.
>   - Both string identifiers are custom time zone identifiers that are equal according to `===`.
>     This comparison is case-sensitive and does not normalize Unicode characters.
>   - Both identifiers are numeric offset time zone identifiers like "+05:30", and they represent the same offset.
> - Otherwise, the time zones are not equal.

Reviewer: By no means necessary, but this explanation can be rephrased:
```suggestion
Compares two time zones for equality.
They are reported equal if and only if both are the same object (`timeZone === other`) or a string comparison of their identifiers (`timeZone.id` against `other.id` if `other` is an object, otherwise `timeZone.id` against `other`) is described by any of the following conditions:
  - Both string identifiers are Zone or Link names in the [IANA Time Zone Database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones), and they resolve to the same Zone name.
    This resolution is case-insensitive.
  - Both string identifiers are custom time zone identifiers that are equal according to `===`.
    This comparison is case-sensitive and does not normalize Unicode characters.
  - Both identifiers are numeric offset time zone identifiers like "+05:30", and they represent the same offset.
```

Author: For the spec, longer sentences seem to be preferred, but for the docs I like to keep sentences shorter so it's easier for readers to follow along. So I'd prefer to leave the simpler text as-is, if that's OK, or use some other set of shorter sentences.
